# ostProject
Health data has always been stored in staggered form. Different types of medical analysis are
performed without keeping in mind the previous medical results for the tests performed a
few times back. The medical records provide a plethora of potential for analyzing the medical
information and predicting the risks for various diseases.
Our web application ORTHANC aims at bridging the gap between collecting and storing
medical data and analyzing it for various medical diseases.
Our web application is divided into 3 components:
1. DICOM Server
2. REST API
3. ML Engine


We are deploying the application in two ways:
1. Local Deployment for use of our server on Intranet, this results in better speed and
efficient connection in a hospital environment.
2. OpenStack cloud deployment for use of our server on Internet, this results in better
accessibility of database and other resources stored on DICOM server.

DICOM SERVER

The Digital Imaging and Communications in Medicine (DICOM) Standard specifies a non-
proprietary data interchange protocol, digital image format, and file structure for biomedical

images and image-related information.

DICOM is most commonly used for storing and transmitting medical images enabling the
integration of medical imaging devices such as scanners, servers, workstations, printers,
network hardware, and picture archiving and communication systems (PACS) from multiple
manufacturers.
DICOM addresses five general application areas:
1. network image management,
2. network image interpretation management,
3. network print management,
4. imaging procedure management,
5. off-line storage media management.

REST API

Our project contains a central control RESTful API to ensure integration of various units, this
central API ensures that our python scripts can interact with the data generated by scanners
at hospitals and other various pathological reports associated with patients. This API uses
MongoDB NoSQL database to store the various data points in BSON format. The python
script can extract the data stored in the database using various endpoints exposed to the
hospital employees. Every endpoint has some RESTful methods associated with it like POST
(Create), GET (Read), PATCH (Update) and DELETE, these methods can be used to
manipulate data in the database.

ML ENGINE

Our ML engine is a comprehensive model that consists of various submodules that
leverage the Supervised as well as Unsupervised Learning Techniques to analyze the data
and predict the risks for various diseases.

Demo

https://www.dropbox.com/s/394b123sv62zx5j/Project_Report_OST_video_UI_Jitesh_1618_Sudhansh_1637.mkv?dl=0
